---
layout: interview
title: Agiliq
subtitle: Building Amazing Apps
tags: consulting django python sencha
---

##Who are you, and what do you do?

I am Shabda Raaj, one of the founders of [Agiliq](http://agiliq.com/). We provide consulting services for Web Application Development using [Django](http://djangoproject.com/) and mobile application development using Phonegap/Apache Cordova and a lot of other HTML5 tools.

I am an engineer by training but I don many hats at Agiliq. My primary role these days has been with sales and biz-dev. While the rest of our team is converting coffee to code, I am converting coffee to emails. I would much rather be coding though.

We have been bootstrapped all along. We have had worked with many clients in many different kinds of relationships. Some of our clients have an in-house team, and for some we are their whole technology team. Some of our clients have been amazing developers and some savvy businessmen. We love working with all different types of people. Working across timezones, across continents has a certain charm and we love doing that.

We use open source and try to contribute whenever we can. [Our team](https://github.com/agiliq) is very active on Github.

##What is your technology stack?

Our server side code is all [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/) and [Python](http://python.org/). We have played around with many other technologies including Ruby on Rails, Pyramid and various Python micro-frameworks. However its Django which suits our tastes and what we use everyday. We prefer Postgres as a RDBMS but a lot of our clients have a preference for MySQL so we use that a lot too. We have used Redis, a lot, but few other NoSQL solutions.

For client side we use [jQuery](http://jquery.com/), like almost everyone else. For our mobile apps, we use Sencha Touch or Jquery Mobile. We use Phonegap/Cordova for compiling the apps for app stores.

We develop locally and deploy on Ubuntu. We have used many hosting companies - AWS, Linode, Rackspace, as long as it is a Ubuntu box with root it doesn't matter much. AWS has some slick tools we have used, S3/Cloudfront et al., but we aren't tied to AWS. 

Our team is very diverse when it comes to IDEs. We use Vim, Emacs, Aptana, Eclipse, [Cloud9](https://c9.io/) whatever floats our boats. I personally like PyCharm and Komodo IDE. We use Git for version control.


##What software do you use to run your business?

We use way too many SaaS tools. We use Assembla for our private repos and task tracking and ticketing. We use Github for hosting our open source code, but I find Assembla to have more integrated tools, for example I find Github's ticketing system very underpowered. We have used Unfuddle and still have some old client projects there.

We use Dropbox for sharing files. Our sites are monitored by Pingdom and some client sites by Siteuptime. We use DNSMadeEasy for DNS hosting. We use name.com for buying domains. I used to use GoDaddy, but I got sick of their business practices.

We use [saucelabs' scout](http://scout.saucelabs.com/) for cross browser testing. We have just started using MewRelic for some of our client's sites. We use Google Analytics for site analytics.

We use Zoho books for book keeping and Freshbooks for invoicing. I would rather be using one tool for both tasks, but they both lack some essential tools which means I need to enter most data twice.

Google Apps is amazing. We use Google Apps for email, Google Docs/Drice for shared documents, Google Calendar for scheduling meetings, and many other Google services. Most of our other tools such as Zoho Books, Freshbooks, Assembla et all support google apps based logins.

Sendgrid, Constant Contact, Mailchimp, Toutapp, Ecquire

##What business software do you most wish existed?

A CRM software which works for a small company with just one or two people doing sales. We have tried many Zoho CRM, Salesforce, Highrise but I never found one which I liked to continue using. You feed your CRM tools data but doing get enough actionable insights back.

We are working with a client on this problem right now building a new CRM tool called MogoCRM. We know this is a hard problem but we are hoping we are up to solve this.
